Docs 1.0 refactor rs (#89)
neuralmagic/docs: src/content/get-started/transfer-a-sparsified-model/nlp-text-classification.mdx

# Transfer a Sparsified Model for Text Classification

This page walks through an example of fine-tuning a pre-sparsified model onto a new dataset for sentiment analysis. 

For NLP tasks, model distillation from a dense teacher to a sparse student model is helpful to achieve higher sparsity and accuracy. 
We will follow two steps using SparseML:

> 1. Fine-tune a dense teacher model (BERT) onto a new dataset (SST-2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Fine-tune a dense teacher model (BERT) onto a new dataset (SST2)
```

> 2. Transfer learn a pre-sparsified model (DistilBERT) from the SparseZoo onto SST-2, distilling from the dense teacher model trained in step 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Transfer learn a pre-sparsified model (DistilBERT) from the SparseZoo onto SST2, distilling from the dense teacher model trained in step 1
```

If you already have a trained teacher model ready to go, you can skip step 1.

An example of transfer learning without model distillation is in the [Use Cases Page](/use-cases/natural-language-processing/text-classification).

Make sure you install SparseML before getting started:
```bash
pip install sparseml
```

## Train a Teacher

To create a teacher for the desired text classification dataset, we will fine-tune a dense BERT model from the SparseZoo, the stub of which is below:
```bash
zoo:nlp/masked_language_modeling/bert-base/pytorch/huggingface/wikipedia_bookcorpus/base-none
```

> The following script fine-tunes the dense teacher onto the SST-2 dataset for sentiment analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following script fine-tunes the dense teacher onto the SST2 dataset for sentiment analysis.
```

Reviewer: Please also correct dataset name in next line.

- `model_name_or_path`: specifies starting model. It can be a SparseZoo stub, HF model identifier, or a local directory 
with `model.pt`, `tokenizer.json` and `config.json`
- `recipe`: recipe containing the training hyperparamters (SparseZoo stub or a local file)
- `task_name`: specifies the sentiment analysis task. If not provided, also specifies the dataset, pipelines, and eval metrics.

To utilize a custom dataset, use the `--train_file` and `--validation_file` arguments. To use a dataset from the HuggingFace hub, use `--dataset_name`. 
See the [HF Docs](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/run_scripts#run-a-script) for more details.

Run the following to see the full list of options:
```bash
$ sparseml.transformers.text_classification -h
```

## Transfer Learning

With the teacher model trained, it is ready to be distilled into a sparsified student model.

SparseZoo contains several pre-sparsified NLP models and recipes ready to be used as the student. This example uses the SparseZoo stub for a pruned-quantized DistilBERT:
```bash
zoo:nlp/masked_language_modeling/distilbert-none/pytorch/huggingface/wikipedia_bookcorpus/pruned80_quant-none-vnni
```

> The following script then transfers the sparsified DistilBERT onto the SST-2 dataset for sentiment analysis with the help of the teacher from above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following script then transfers the sparsified DistilBERT onto the SST2 dataset for sentiment analysis with the help of the teacher from above.
```

> After the command completes, the trained sparse model will be around 90.5% accurate on SST-2 and stored in the local `models/sparsified` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the command completes, the trained sparse model will be around 90.5% accurate on SST2 and stored in the local `models/sparsified` directory.
```
